 DA - Introduction to Python 
1) What are the types of Applications? 
Ans:- Applications are based on its purpose,platform and delivery methods..Applications such as
      web applications,mobile application,desktop application...
	  
2) What is programing? 
Ans:- Programming is a set of instruction or code written by user and deliver to the computer to 
     perform specific task...

3) What is Python?
Ans:- Python is a high-level, general-purpose programming language known for its 
    readability and simplicity.It was created by Guido van Rossum, and released in 1991.

7) How memory is managed in Python?
Ans:- Python manages memory automatically using a combination of techniques, primarily reference 
		counting and a garbage collector..

8) What is the purpose continuing statement in python? 
Ans:- The continue keyword is used to end the current iteration in a for loop (or a while loop),
		and continues to the next iteration.
		
17)What are negative indexes and why are they used? 
Ans:- Negative indexing is used in Python to manipulate sequence objects such as lists, arrays, 
	strings, etc. Negative indexing retrieves elements from the end by providing negative 
	numbers as sequence indexes.		

25) What is List? How will you reverse a list? 
Ans:- Lists are used to store multiple items in a single variable.Its orderable,mutuable 
		and allow duplicate value.The reverse() method reverses the elements of the list in-place 
		and it modify the original list without creating a new list. 
		
26) How will you remove last object from a list? 		
Ans:- If there are more than one item with the specified value, the remove() method removes 
	the first occurrence.The pop() method removes the last item from the list.

27) Suppose list1 is [2, 33, 222, 14, and 25], what is list1 [-1]?
Ans:- The element at index (-1) in list1 is (25).

28) Differentiate between append () and extend () methods? 	
Ans:- append() adds a single element to the end of a list, whereas extend() adds all elements
	from an iterable (like another list, tuple, or string) to the end of the list. 
	
30) How will you compare two lists?
Ans:- The == operator compares the two lists item by item which means they have equal 
		data items at equal positions.	
		
43) What is tuple? Difference between list and tuple. 		
Ans:- Tuple are used to store multiple items in a single variable.Its orderable,immutuable 
		and allow duplicate value. 
		
47) How will you create a dictionary using tuples in python?
Ans:- If the tuples are in the form of key-value pairs, a dictionary can be created directly
		using the dict() constructor or by using curly braces {}.		
		
51) How Do You Traverse Through a Dictionary Object in Python? 
Ans:- Dictionary can be traversed using a for loop in several ways, depending on whether
		you need to access the keys, values, or both.
		
52) How Do You Check the Presence of a Key in A Dictionary?
Ans:- The in operator returns True if the key is present and False otherwise.

65) How Many Basic Types of Functions Are Available in Python?  
Ans:- There are two types of functions in python: User-Defined Functions - these types of 
		functions are defined by the user to perform any specific task. Built-in Functions - These  
		are pre-defined functions in python such as print(),type(),len().		
		
66) How can you pick a random item from a list or tuple?
Ans:- Generate a random item from the tuple or list using random. choice() method.

67) How can you pick a random item from a range? 
Ans:- Use the random.randrange() function(Returns a random number within the specified range)
		to generate a random number within the given range by passing minimum, and maximum numbers
		as arguments.		
		
68) How can you get a random number in python? 	
Ans:- The randint() method returns an integer number selected element from the specified range.	
		
69) How will you set the starting value in generating random numbers?	
Ans:- To set the starting value, or seed, for generating random numbers in Python, the 
		random.seed() function is used.	
		
70) How will you randomize the items of a list in place? 
Ans:- shuffle() function is simplest way to shuffle a list in-place. It directly modifies the
		list and doesn't return a new list.

71) What is File function in python? What are keywords to create and write file. 
Ans:- File handling in Python involves using built-in functions to create, open, read, write,
		and close files. "w" - Write - Opens a file for writing, creates the file if it does 
		not exist.
		
83) Explain Exception handling? What is an Error in Python?	
Ans:- Exception handling in Python is a mechanism to manage runtime errors, known as exceptions,
		that can disrupt the normal flow of a program. It allows the program to continue execution even 
		if an error occurs. This is achieved using try, except, else, and finally blocks.

84) How many except statements can a try-except block have? Name Some built-in exception classes:
Ans:- It is possible to have multiple except blocks for one try block. Some built-in exception
		classes are ValueError,ZeroDivisionError.
		
85) When will the else part of try-except-else be executed? 
Ans:- The else part of a try-except-else block in Python is executed only when no exceptions
		are raised within the try block. 		
		
86) Can one block of except statements handle multiple exception?
Ans:- Yes, one except block can handle multiple exceptions.

87) When is the finally block executed? 
Ans:- The finally block is executed after the try block exits, regardless of whether an 
		exception was thrown or caught.
		
88) What happens when „1‟== 1 is executed? 
Ans:-  In Python, '1' is a string and 1 is an integer. Comparing them using == returns False, 
		because they are of different data types and do not hold the same value in Python's
		type system.		
		
		
		

	
		